Here's what I want to do now.
I want to add some profile tabs so other users can view any recipes a user has submitted.
This will take some time to do so bear with me here in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the BP core new nav item function.
This function will add a tab to the profile page.
This function can be found by going to documentation developer resources.
This page gives more of a technical overview for Buddy press.
You'll find a list of functions on the sidebar.
One of them being the function I just showed you.
Unfortunately this example usage doesn't really explain everything to get started using it.
Don't worry though I'll explain the extra steps you need to take in order to use this function.
Open the functions file and use an action hook called BP setup nav
this hook isn't documented by Buddy press on their site but this is the hook you need to use to begin
setting up navigation items on the profile page.
The function I want to call will be named Jay you buddy Press profile taps
as you may know.
I like to stay organized.
I'm going to create a folder inside the includes folder called Buddy press.
This folder will include all functions and code related to extending and modifying buddy press.
Inside this folder I'm going to create a file named profile dash tabs dot HP.
I'm going to define the function here.
Lastly I'm going to include it from the functions file
inside this function.
We're going to need the global BP variable.
This global variable is defined and provided to you by Buddy press.
The function we're about to call needs this variable so that it can function correctly.
Next let's call the function BP core new nav item.
It has one parameter which is an array of settings.
The first setting is the name which will set to recipes.
This will appear as the tab name.
Make sure it's translatable as well.
The next setting is the slug which is what will be appended to the member you are out.
You'll see what this looks like in a minute.
I'm going to set it to recipes
the next setting is the position I'm going to set this to 100.
This will determine the spot it appears in the menu.
The lower the number the chances are it'll appear first inside the menu.
I want this to appear laughed so I'm setting this to a high number.
The next setting is the screen function.
You can pass in the name of the function that will take care of displaying the content to the user when
this page is loaded.
I'm going to set this to J you.
Recent recipes tab.
Up next is the show for displayed user setting.
This option will determine if the menu and Page will appear if the page belongs to the current logged
in user.
If a user is logged in and they're viewing someone else's profile should they be able to view this page.
Or is it just for the page owners eyes.
I'm going to set this to true.
This will mean everyone will be able to see this page the next setting is the item CSX I.D. setting
which is just the I.D. attribute you can use to style this menu item.
I'm going to set this to J you user recipes
the very last setting is the default sub nav slug that will set two recipes.
This is for the sub menu navigation.
There are usually two navigation menus for profiles.
If you were to look at the profile page you'll see this main menu and under it is another menu which
is relative to the active main menu item.
If I were to change the item in the primary menu you'll notice the sub navigation changes accordingly.
You'll also notice our recipes menu item appearing now.
I don't plan on having a sub navigation menu so I've decided to set the sub menu to the same name as
the primary menu.
Buddy press will be able to determine that there's no need for a sub menu and that it doesn't have to
worry about it before we move forward with displaying the content.
I want to perform one check before we run this bit of code.
The content I want to display will only display submitted recipe posts by the user.
However there is a chance that the ad men will not even have this plugin installed or activated.
If that's the case I don't want to display this menu item.
There are three solutions we can use.
The first solution is to use the function exists function like we've always done.
However I want to take it a step further and check if the plugin is activated.
The second solution would be to move all the buddy press code into the recipe plugin itself.
While this might seem like a great solution and completely acceptable by Buddy press it does cause a
problem with having the recipe plugin be usable with anything.
Keep in mind that plug ins should be compatible with most things by default.
I only want this functionality to be available with my Udemy theme and nothing else.
That's why we're doing all this in the theme itself.
The third solution would be to check if the plugin is activated.
This is very simple to do.
This is the solution we'll be using.
First I'm going to create a new file inside the includes folder called utility dot HP this file will
contain all our utility functions utility functions are just normal page functions that really can't
do anything by themselves but make it easier to process data.
Make sure to include this file from the main functions file
before we define a function.
I want to make sure if it's been defined beforehand I'm going to check if a function called J you plug
in activated check exists if it doesn't.
We'll define it ourselves.
This function will accept the plug and file name which will be required to use this function inside
this function.
We need to require the file WP dash admin slash includes slash plug in dot P HP
the function I want to use is not loaded on every page load we'll need to include it ourselves just
in case then I'm going to return the value returned by B is plug in active function will pass him the
plug and file name.
This is a wordpress function that will check if the plugin we passed in is activated and installed.
You can think of the function we just made as a sugar function because it's just a shorthand way of
writing these two lines of code into one line.
It's also common practice to check if certain utility functions have already been defined.
I've been in situations where I've developed multiple plugins for the same site.
This has resulted in me reusing functions checking off a function has already been defined is a good
way to prevent collisions with your own code with the function defined.
Let's use it inside the profile taps file.
Let's use a conditional statement and call the utility function we just created
the plugin file name is the file path relative to the plugins directory in our case it would be.
Recipe.
And then the main plugin file which is the index top HP file.
If this function returns false we're going to simply return the function preventing it from executing
the rest of this code now that we've got that established we can begin to display the actual content.
I'm going to create a brand new file inside the includes slash buddy press directory called profile
dash post stop HP
define the screen function we passed into the TAM function which should be J.
You recent recipes tab lastly include this file from the function's file
inside this function we have to do three things.
We are allowed to just start outputting content but that's not really the correct way to do things.
Buddy press is a plugin that is easily extendable if you looked through any of the templates you'll
notice.
There were a lot of do action and apply filters functions spread throughout the code.
This means that Buddy press even allows other developers to extend it like we're doing right now creating
tab pages is no different.
We should allow developers to extend this tab page just like any other buddy press page.
Luckily it's pretty easy to do.
I want to call the function BP core load template this function will load a core template from Buddy
press with fallback support the template that's loaded depends on the string you pass in before I pass
in a string.
I want to filter it.
We have to use the apply filters function the filter hook.
I want to call is BP core template plug in.
This is a buddy press hook that other developers can use to modify the path of a template.
Specifically this will modify the path to the plugin template.
The plugin template is a very special template in Buddy press.
Its purpose is specifically for plugins plugins.
Get a template to load their content.
The path to this template is members slash single slash plugins.
Let's take a look at this template inside the buddy press plugin.
Let's open this template file.
Here is what Buddy press says about this plug in inside this block comment.
Third party plug ins should use this template to easily add template support to their plugins for the
members component.
This is the template that will load our plugins content.
I'm fine with the way it is so I'm going to leave this template as is now the question is how do we
load our content inside this template.
Well if you scroll down this template you'll find two calls to the BP nouveau member hook function.
We won't go down the rabbit hole for this function because there's quite a bit going on with it.
I'll just explain what they do.
You pass into value and it'll prepare the text.
BP on your score template underscore then it'll call the do action function and trigger a hook for you
to use the first example will trigger the BP template tidal hook and the second example will trigger
the BP template content hook.
You can use these hooks to load your content.
It's important to understand that this template is meant for plugins other than Buddy press buddy press
does not use this page for its own pages.
Because of this we're expected to use these hooks ourselves to load our content.
Normally we would open the functions file and hook into these two hooks but these two hooks are available
on those templates.
This is a problem as we could potentially divide or display information that we don't want to.
We only want our code to apply to the recipe page.
Luckily we don't have to use the ad action function in just the function's file back inside the tab
function.
I'm going to call the ad action function twice for both hooks.
I'm going to pass in the two hooks and call the functions.
Jay you buddy press recent post title and Jay you buddy press post content respectively
since the screen function will only run if the TAB is clicked and loaded.
We can safely assume these two hooks will only be added and called at this point too.
This code will be placed right before we load the template since the template is the one calling these
two hooks right below this code.
I'm going to define both functions.
The title function will just have a div tag with the class text center.
My text will be my recipes
the content function will have a list of the recipes the user has submitted.
The first thing I want to do is grab the idea of the current profile.
Create a variable called profile user I.D. and assign its value returned by the function BP displayed.
User I.D. which will grab the I.D. of the current user profile.
I'm going to make a conditional statement to make sure this I.D. is not empty.
If it is empty we'll simply return the function and not display anything at all
now that we have an I.D..
I'm going to create a new variable named posts which will be a custom query.
There are only three things I want to set.
The first is the author which will be set to the user I.D.
We only want to grab posts based on the profile being viewed.
Then I want to set the posts per page setting to 10 I only want the 10 most recent posts since this
is a custom post type.
We have to set the post type 2 recipes so that it'll only grab recipe posts
then just like any other loop I'm going to begin the process of looping through all of this.
Nothing new so far I only want to output the excerpts.
Luckily we don't have to rewrite the code for that.
If you can recall we already have a template for excerpts.
I'm going to call the get template part function and pass in partials slash post slash content dash
excerpt which will use the template part we use in the index template.
Lastly I'm just going to reset the data using the WP reset post data function
let's check out the recipe tab now everything is coming out great except that the images are a bit too
big.
We really don't need all this space.
I'm going to adjust my template a bit.
I'm going to wrap my loop with two sets of div tags.
I'll apply the ideas post to the first div with the classes row justify content M.D. Center
the second div tag will how the classes CIOL M.D. 8 the classes I'm currently applying are bootstrap
classes I recommend you check out the bootstrap documentation to learn more about these classes.
All they do is center the content for us refresh the page and you should see everything looking a bit
better.
The classes I just used are bootstrap classes and are not specific to WordPress or buddy press in any
way.
Let me go over what happened.
The first thing we did was tell Buddy press about a new menu item we'd like to add.
If a user clicks on this menu item then the screen function will be called the screen function does
a few things.
What we want to do is display our content.
There are a couple of ways to go about this.
We could if we wanted to just output t email directly from the function.
That's perfectly fine.
However it's always good practice to make the page match the site and allow other plugins to extend
the page if they need to Buddy press provides a template for plugins to use so that plugins don't have
to worry about a lot of the markup or calling any required functions.
A special thing about this template is that there are action hooks called at certain points to allow
developers to display content.
That's exactly what we do here.
We use those action hooks specifically we hook into the title in content action hooks the functions
that are called will output a title and the content respectively.
It's a lot of work but well worth the effort.
That should do it for now.
Let's continue onto the next lecture.